in this video we are going to install
Jenkins with docker you will learn what
is docker and how you can install
Jenkins using docker the only
prerequisite is to have docker installed
on your machine here is the link to
install it from the official docker
website docker is available for Windows
10 Mac OS and Linux if you are getting
started with docker install the latest
stable version of the docker Community
Edition docker is a fairly recent
software technology introduced in 2013
to build ship and deploy software docker
packages all the software dependencies
into a so called docker image and allows
to isolate processes and resources in a
container docker provides lots of
benefits for packaging and distributing
software one of the major advantages of
docker is to solve the so called
dependency hell where software has
dependencies on specific versions of
other software in dr. all the
dependencies are packaged and
distributed by an image docker also
allows to build the image ones and run
it as a container on any platform that
supports it finally docker containers
are very lightweight and can be started
within seconds these are the commands to
install Jenkins via docker in the first
command we pulled the official docker
image for Jenkins long-term support LTS
from docker hub in the second command we
start the docker container for the first
time and map our volumes and ports we'll
explain this in more detail in a minute
the third is a bonus command I give you
to start the docker container for
Jenkins in detached mode use this
command if you don't want to see the
logs in the output without any further
ado let's install Jenkins with docker
first I'll show you the official docker
image for Jenkins from the docker hub
website as you can see all we need to do
to download the image is to run a docker
full command however we are going to use
the Jenkins image with the tag LTS in
order to download the latest long-term
support version of Jenkins so we open a
terminal and run the docker pull command
this downloads all the layers of the
docker image I have some layers already
on my machine while others need to being
downloaded this might take a little
while according to your internet
connection so be patient I'm moving
forward a bit until docker has
downloaded all the layers of the image
we now execute the docker run command
this runs the docker container for
Jenkins we apply some command line flags
like the minus P option allowing to map
a port on the container 8080 with a port
on the host 8080 we do the same for port
50,000 that is used for running agents
in Jenkins we also use the minus V
option allowing to map the volume inside
the container to a persistent volume on
our local directory so that the restart
of the docket container will keep our
Jenkins configuration stored on the
local disk you can see the docker
container for Jenkins starting up and
showing the logs to the standard output
I use this option deliberately to show
you what happens under the hood
note this log which contains the
temporary admin password we will need it
very soon
to configure Jenkins now open your
favorite browser and head to localhost
column atat
to see Jenkins running we are asked to
unlock Jenkins using the temporary admin
password copy the password from the logs
paste it under administrator password
and click on continue we are now asked
to customize Jenkins by installing
plugins if you know exactly which
plugins you need click on select plugins
to install and choose your plugins
otherwise install the suggested plugins
I recommend this option if you are
starting with Jenkins this takes a
little while depending on your internet
connection so I'm moving forward a bit
until we get to plugins installation
green as a last step we are asked to
create the first admin user enter a user
name a strong password full name and
email address and click on Save and
finish
Jenkins is now setup so start using it
well done Jenkins is now installed on
your system and ready to be put to work
this is the end of the video where we
installed and setup Jenkins with docker
this is the end of section one where you
learned what is Jenkins and what it is
useful in the practical part we install
the Jenkins together on the main
operating systems and via docker so now
test what you learned in this section by
heading to this github repository in
here you will find a few questions to
test your Jenkins knowledge and the
practical exercise you will also find
some suggested solutions to the
exercises and if you want you can
interact with me by a github in the next
section we are going to start using
Jenkins describe its key concepts and
configure and run our first Jenkins job